We're trying to create an array of
objects for creating the flowers.
And so let's do that together.
And so the very first thing let's do
is the colors for the movie genres.
Now thus far we've been using
that object with the genre,
the object that has the genre
to the color mapping.
And we had to do something weird for
when our genre wasn't in that color object
because it wasn't one of the top genre.
So then, we had to use this other color.
Let's kinda take a look at how D3
scales makes that much easier for us.
So we're going to use cons color scale.
Let's call it color scale.
We're going to use scale ordinal.
So that one was where we map from
a discrete input to a discrete output.
And what we're gonna do is we're
going to use as our domain and
we have this array of top genres.
And that I think looks like
let's take a quick look at that.
So the array of, oops sorry,
the array of top genres looks like this.
It's this array of these
four strings of genres.
And then we're gonna
take a look at the code.
And then, the path colors that we're going
to map to is also, there's no path colors?
Petal colors, I'm sorry, petal colors.
So, petal colors is also an array of
Four strings, in this case,
the hex code for the colors.
And so we're going to map these
two arrays to each other.
So, basically, we're saying map each of
the genres in the top genres array to each
of the colors in the petal colors array.
And then because I saw our
movies have genres that aren't
in the top genres array, for
anything that's unknown.
We want to use the other color.
So color object dot other is
just this kind of yellow color.
So we're just saying if
we can map these top genres
to these petal colors.
But if our movie has a genre that's
not in this top genres array,
we're going to use this color
instead when it's unknown.
So that's the first thing.
Then, so let's put that in there and
let's see if it works.
So let's call it color.
And let's use color scale and
say d dot genres.
So, for each movie, the first genre.
And let's see if that is working.
Perfect.
So for each of them,
we have the color set on them now.
And I think for some of these,
these are the ones with other genres and
those are being taken care of also.
And then the second thing
we did was get the,
The go from, the rated.
So the PG rating to the type of petal.
And again,
because this is a discrete to discrete,
we're going to use scale ordinal.
And actually, here's another thing
that makes life quite a bit
easier with D3 scales.
Instead of using the objects
that we were doing before.
Which is that, in this particular example,
we're not going to specify any domains.
And we're just going to say we want the
output to be this array of petal paths.
And what D3 will go ahead and
do for us is that and
every time it sees a new and
parental guidance reading.
It will automatically map
it to whatever petal path
has not been mapped to yet.
So let's say that the very
first movie as rating is PG,
then it will map this PG to the first
path in our array of petal paths.
And let's say after three or four more
of the rating PG it sees, the rating R.
And so because it's all a new one,
it's going to map that string R,
that rating R to the second
path in our petal paths array.
So that's really nice because
we don't have to explicitly
write out an array of, G, PG, PG13, R.
And D3 will just take care of it for us.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So we're gonna call it path.
And we'll say path scale and
we're going to pass in our PG rated.
And so now, cool, so,
you can see that each of
them now has a path,
that is being mapped to it.
So that's why it appeared like this.
In here.
So this is our code thus far.
And then let's do the two new ones.
So let's,
map our ratings out of 10 to our scale.
So let's call that a size scale.
And this one is a continuous mapping,
a continuous to continuous mapping.
And so in this case,
we're going to use scale linear.
And you might have noticed that I
listed a few other continuous scales,
like scale log, or scale power,
or scale square root.
And so I usually tend to use
scale log when there's some
really extreme numbers that are outliers.
And then so those are kind of like if you
just use a linear scale then maybe most of
your data points will be down here.
But then that one extreme
will be up here and
you can't quite see
the detail within here.
And skill log will what kind of like let
you kind of expand the bottom part and
then be able to see kind
of the bottom part also.
Though, be careful with
scale logs because and
a lot of people might not notice that it's
a logarithmic scale that's been applied.
So then it might
potentially be misleading.
Be very careful about
how you label the axes.
And, yeah, so logarithmic scales
are also very useful and helpful.
When, let's say the data points
you have might have a kind of
an exponential growth
sort of trend going on.
So that's when I might use a log scale.
And I might use a scale
square root when I'm
trying to map the radius of a circle.
So, there's different times when
different scales can be used.
But for our example,
we're just going to stick
to the kind of linear mapping for
scaling here.
And so we have a reading and so
actually now this is where we want to say.
Let's say that we're going to
get the min and max rating.
Out of our movies data set, so
we're going to say D3 dot extent.
We're gonna pass in the movies data set.
And we're going to say that I
want to know the min max rating.
So dot rating.
And we'll pass that in as the array and
that will probably look something
like 3 to 9.8 or something like that.
This is purely a guess, but the min and
max rating is going to be an array
that looks something like that.
And then I'm gonna say that
I want to map this to,
because we're gonna be using
passing this into transform scale.
So right now, our petal paths are kind
of in the shape out of 100 pixels.
And so I probably want it
to be smaller than that.
So I'm going to scale it from
something 0.2 to maybe 0.75.
And we can kind of like play
around with the scaling.
But for
now that's how I'm gonna do my scaling.
And then finally we're going to
go from the number of votes
to the number of petals.
And again, let's go and
get the min and max number of votes.
We're going to use D3 extent, and
this time we're going to say, seven votes.
Yeah, I think it's votes.
And because this one is from
a continuous to discrete,
we're going to use a non petal scale
is equal to dot scale quantize
dot domain is min and max votes.
And this is something probably that's like
some few thousand to some like million or
something like that.
And the range, I'm going to maybe
do something between five to 10 petals.
So I might do something like this.
Alternatively, I like to just use
this low dash function that time.
We gonna say 5 to 11 and so
this will give me back an array
of between the numbers 5 and
11 because it's not inclusive here.
So this will give me
this exact array back.
But just for the sake of this
exercise I want it to show that.
Okay, so let's call that scale,
and use the size scale.
And we're going to pass in the rating.
And then, for the num petals,
we're going to do num petals scale,
and we're going to pass
in the number of votes.
If we've done that correctly,
then yeah, there we go.
So now we have everything
scaled correctly.
And we're not using the num petals yet.
We'll use that in the next notebook
when we're creating the whole flower.
And that's fine.
We'll create the right number
of petals for each movie and
then rotate them around into a flower.
But as of right now, we have the path,
we have the color, and we have the scale.
And then we have the translation.
And so this is what it looks like.